# Antimatter-Gravity-Interferometer-Simulation

  The Antimatter Gravity Interferometer Simulation is a multi-semester long research project done at the Illinois Institute of Technology for their Interprofessional Project Program, which I had the priveledge to take part of. This project is a theoretical physics research experiment that is aiming to learn how antimatter behaves when subjected to the force of gravity. Will it fall up? Or will it fall down? The truth is that despite what many may think, the answer is currently unknown in the physics community. More information on the experiment can be found here: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1802.01438.pdf

  Before me, several students had worked on devising a simulation that utilized the Huygens-Fresnel Principle to determine how a muonium beam would behave after being exposed to mulitple diffracion gratings. This simulation was done utilizing the Python Cuda library to attempt to determine behavior without subjecting too much computational time. The previous work was done using only a 1-Dimentional framework for the diffraction grating system.

  My role in this experiment was to attempt to optimize algorithms within the code, as well as to attempt to scale the code to a 2-Dimentional diffraction grating system, which would allow future students to run a 3-Dimentional simulation. To which I accomplished both tasks. I developed a multi-core algorithm which proved to show a logarithmic decrease in runtime dependent on the amount of calculations. More than 200,000 calculations utilizing 2-Core's on a processor as opposed to a single core led to a consistent decrease in runtime, ranging between 20%-35%. This will lead to a dramatic increase in performance when it comes to the instantiation of objects when futute students will need to scale the project.

  I also scaled the diffraction grating class to utilize a height variable, whereas previous code only had a width. This led to a linear increase in runtime, which is all dependent on the height variable. This was to be expected given that we were adding a dimention. 
